1.8.2   June, 2006

   Bugfix release by cH <Claus.Heine@Mathematik.Uni-Freiburg.DE>:

   * I/O with release <= 1.8.1 was just broken, they used internals of
     opaque data-types (e.g. the FILE handle of the stdio library)
   * Maple V8 interface
   * VRML2 interface
   * build-system fixes (ported to recent automake/autoconf combo)
   * seek'able pipes on GLIBC-system, using its fopencookie framework.
   * variable argument fixes, was also broken in <= 1.8.1 releases.
   * Documentation can be regenerated with recent texinfo releases.

   Otherwise no real changes.

1.8.1	March, 2001

   This is a bugfix release.

   * No segfaults at startup on linux.
   * Toggle buttons are visible again.
   * Binary I/O on linux works.

1.8.0   November 17, 2000

   The software in this release is almost the same as in the 1.7.*
   series. The main difference is that it has an improved configure
   script and Makefiles that allow for several new things.

   (a) VPATH builds now supported

   (b) Additional external modules can simply be dropped into place in
       the "src/bin" directory, and Geomview's configure script will
       notice their presence and configure/build them when you
       configure/build Geomview.  (This only works with module
       distributions that have been specifically packed up for this
       purpose; see http://www.geomview.org/download for more
       details.)

   (c) The binary Intel/Linux XFORMS distribution is no longer a part
       of the Geomview source distribution.  Users who want it can
       download it separately, unpack it into the Geomview source
       tree, and Geomview's configure script will notice it's there
       and use it.  (This works with the binary XFORMS distribution
       for any system, not just Intel/Linux.)

   (d) 'togeomview' program now included in the release (this program,
       used to facilitate communication between Geomview and other
       programs, got temporarily dropped in release 1.7.0, but now is
       back).

   (e) a few minor bug fixes; see ChangeLog for details


1.7.10  Nov 1, 2000

   Attempted to fix bug which caused Geomview to crash immediately
   upon startup on some newer GNU/Linux systems.  The bug has to do
   with Geomview's use of the 'fmemopen' system function.  This
   release attempts to autodetect which version of this function to
   use.  If it still crashes for you, pass the flag
   "--enable-fstropen-1" to "configure" and try again.  If you still
   have problems, let me [mbp@geomtech.com] know.

   Misc fixes to allow compilation on wider variety of platforms


1.7.9  Oct 20, 2000

   Minor change to allow compilation with Mesa-3.3 (related to how
   Mesa-3.3 declares prototypes for GL extention functions).  No
   change in functionality, but this version compiles without errors
   with Mesa-3.3, which previous versions didn't.

1.7.8  Oct 14, 2000     

   Fixed bug which prevented compressed textures from working on
   some Linux systems
        
   Fixed several compilation/configuration problems.  Now tested on:
       Linux:  RedHat 6.1, 7.0
	       Mandrake 7.0
	       Caldera-2.3
	       Mandrake-7.0
	       Slackware-7.0
       Solaris-2.6 (SunOS 5.6)
       AIX 4.3.2
       IRIX 6.3



1.7.7   August 22, 2000

   Added some of the external modules to the distribution, but haven't
   actually tested them.  Updated the documentation to reflect the
   fact that the geomview-users mailing list is now hosted at
   lists.sourceforge.net.

1.7.6   May 25, 2000

   This is the first release of Geomview to use GNU autoconf.  The
   autoconf script has been tested on Linux (RedHat 6.1), IRIX 6.3,
   and AIX 4.3.2.  It's untested on other platforms and may need
   tweaking to work on them.  Also, note that this release does not
   include the external modules.  If you want any of them, use an
   older release, or wait for a future one.
