		      Geomview/OOGL Release 1.7
			  February 13, 2000
			  -----------------

        This release of Geomview is essentially the same as the
        1.6.1p9 version released in August of 1998.  The code hasn't
        changed at all since then.  What has changed is that the
        Geometry Cener, where Geomview was developed, is now closed,
        and Geomview has a new home at www.geomview.org.  This
        release includes updated documentation which reflects this
        fact.


CONTENTS
--------

        Introduction
        Installation
        More about Geomview
        External Modules
        Auxiliary Programs
        Documentation
        Geomview Support
        History
        Miscellaneous
        Known Bugs
        Improvements/Wish list
        Bug Reports and Comments



INTRODUCTION
------------
                                   
This is version 1.7 of Geomview/OOGL.  It runs on many UNIX workstations
using X/Motif, including Silicon Graphics, Sun, Linux, HP-UX, DEC Alpha,
and RS/6000, using plain Xlib graphics, Open GL if available, or GL (on SGIs).
A version also runs on NextStep 3.1 or later using Quick Renderman graphics.

Geomview is an interactive geometry viewing program.  OOGL, which
stands for Object Oriented Graphics Library, is the library upon
which Geomview is built.

NOTE: Please read the file REGISTER.  We (the Geomview developers)
would like to know how people are using Geomview so that we can
continue to improve it in ways that are useful.

In addition, if you use geomview please send an email note to
geomview-users-request@geomview.org requesting to be added to the
geomview-users mailing list; this list is for announcements regarding
geomview and for geomview users to communicate with each other.  See
the details in the GEOMVIEW E-MAIL section below.


INSTALLATION
------------

If you got a binary distribution, see the file INSTALL-BINARY for
installation instructions.  If you have the source, see file file
INSTALL.Geomview for instructions on configuring and compiling.

Disk space required:
    geomview-hpux.tar.Z, untarred			  23 MB
    geomview-linux.tar.Z, untarred			  22 MB
    geomview-sgi.tar.Z, untarred			  23 MB
    geomview-solaris.tar.Z, untarred			  21 MB

    geomview-src.tar.Z, assuming you've installed XForms and Tcl/Tk
	"Compiled for" values are peak sizes, after "make install"
		and before "make clean", and compiling with -O and not -g.
	source only, untarred				  15 MB
	source, compiled for SGI			  72 MB
	source, compiled for Sun (Solaris Sparc)	  51 MB
	source, compiled for Linux 'x86			  49 MB
	source, compiled for HP-UX			  53 MB


MORE ABOUT GEOMVIEW
-------------------

Geomview is the product of an effort at the Geometry Center at the
University of Minnesota to provide interactive geometry software which
is particularly appropriate for mathematics research and education.
In particular, geomview can display things in hyperbolic and spherical
space as well as Euclidean space.

Geomview allows multiple independently controllable objects and
cameras.  It provides interactive control for motion, appearances
(including lighting, shading, and materials), picking on an
object, edge or vertex level, snapshots in SGI image file or
Renderman RIB format, and adding or deleting objects is provided
through direct mouse manipulation, control panels, and keyboard
shortcuts.  External programs can drive desired aspects of the
viewer (such as continually loading changing geometry or
controlling the motion of certain objects) while allowing
interactive control of everything else.

Geomview supports the following simple data types: polyhedra with
shared vertices (.off), quadrilaterals, rectangular meshes,
vectors, and Bezier surface patches of arbitrary degree including
rational patches.  Object hierarchies can be constructed with
lists of objects and instances of object(s) transformed by one or
many 4x4 matrices.  Arbitrary portions of changing hierarchies
may be transmitted by creating named references.

Geomview can display Mathematica and Maple 3-D graphics output; for
information on this see the files OOGL.m.doc and gvplot.doc, respectively,
in the "doc" subdirectory.


EXTERNAL MODULES
----------------

Geomview comes with several "external modules" --- programs that
communicate with geomview through a command language.  The list
of currently installed modules appears in the "Modules" browser
on geomview's main panel.  To invoke a module, click the mouse on
the appropriate line in this browser.  The modules in this
distribution are:

MODULE	   PLATFORMS	DESCRIPTION

addbbox:	SNX	create a wireframe box around an object
animate:	SNX	flip through a sequence of objects
clipboard:	SX	cut, copy and paste geometric objects
cplxview:	SX	complex-function viewer, using geomview N-D projection
crayola:	SNX	interactively color objects
drawbdy:	SNX	compute and draw the boundary of an object
example:	SX	generic FORMS example external module
flythrough:	SX	interactive version of "Not Knot" hyperbolic flythrough
ginsu:		SX	interactively slice objects (see "clip")
graffiti:	SNX	draw line segments on objects
gvclock:	SNX	3D clock, demonstrates real-time motion
hinge:		SX	hinge copies of a polyhedron around its edges
labeler:	X	turn text into geometric objects
maniview:	SX	3-manifold viewer
NDview:		SX	N-dimensional viewing controls
NDdemo:		SX	N-dimensional viewing demonstration
nose:		SNX	demonstrates picking
stereo:		SX	hardware, crosseyed, red/cyan stereo
sweep:		SN	generate objects of rotation from line segments
tackdown:	SX	redefine an object's "home" position
transformer:	SX	explicitly control an object's transformation matrix
trigrp:		S	explore triangle symmetry groups

(S means SGI version exists, N means NeXTStep version exists,
X means X version exists.)

									
AUXILIARY PROGRAMS
------------------

PROGRAM	    PLATFORMS	DESCRIPTION

anytooff:	SNX	convert any OOGL object into OFF format
anytoucd:	SNX	convert any OOGL object into UCD format
bdy:		SNX  	compute the boundary edges of a geom as a VECT file
bez2mesh:	SNX	convert Bezier object to MESH
clip:		SNX	clip OOGL objects against planes or other surfaces
hvectext:	SNX	produce VECT text from Ghostscript Hershey fonts
math2oogl:	SNX	convert Mathematica graphics object to OOGL format
offconsol:	SNX  	consolidate duplicate vertices in an OFF file
oogl2rib	SNX	convert OOGL to RenderMan RIB (see OOGL.m.doc)
polymerge:	SNX	merge vertices, edges, and faces in an OFF file
togeomview:	SNX	pipe GCL commands or geometry to a copy of geomview,
		    	  invoking geomview if necessary
ucdtooff:	SNX	convert UCD format file into an OFF OOGL file

(S means SGI version exists, N means NeXTStep version exists,
X means X version exists)


DOCUMENTATION
-------------

A comprehensive manual is in the "doc" subdirectory.  You can also
read or download the manual from the Geomview web site,
www.geomview.org.

The file doc/oogltour gives an introduction to the OOGL file
format, which is the format of geometry files that geomview
reads.  More details are in the manual.

Further documentation is in the "man" directory, which contains
Unix manual pages in both nroff source and formatted form.  Each
external module, as well as geomview itself, has a manual
page.  Of particular interest are:

	man/cat1/geomview.1	geomview man page
	man/cat5/geomview.5	geomview command language reference
	man/cat5/oogl.5		OOGL file format reference
	doc/OOGL.m.doc		documentation for interface to Mathematica
	doc/gvplot.doc		documentation for interface to Maple


GEOMVIEW E-MAIL
---------------

There are three electronic mail addresses for communication
regarding geomview:

geomview-users@geomview.org

    This is a mailing list of people using geomview and can be used
    for communication between users regarding geomview problems,
    questions, experiences, etc.  The geomview authors are also a part
    of this list and sometimes respond to questions posted to it.  We also
    use this list to make announcements about new releases and other
    things of interest to users.  To be added to or removed from the
    geomview-users list, send a note to geomview-users-request@geomview.org.

software@geomview.org

    This is the "official" bug-reporting address.  Please send notes
    about any bugs you find to this address.

register@geomview.org

    Use this address to tell us what you are doing with Geomview.  If
    you use Geomview in your work please send us a note at this
    address telling us what you are doing with it.  We're always
    interested to hear about new applications of Geomview, and we may
    include a link on www.geomview.org to your work (but we'll check
    with you first before doing this).


HISTORY
-------

This project began in the summer of 1988 at the University of
Minnesota's Geometry Center with the work of Pat Hanrahan on a viewing
program called MinneView.  Shortly thereafter Charlie Gunn begin
developing OOGL in conjunction with MinneView.  In 1991 a team of
programmers headed by Mark Phillips, Stuart Levy, and Tamara Munzner
set about developing a revised version of OOGL and a new viewer which
they named Geomview.  In the time since then, many people have
contributed, including (in alphabetical order): Steve Anderson,
Celeste Fowler, Todd Kaplan, Daniel Krech, Mario Lopez, Daeron Meyer,
Mark Meuer , Timothy Rowley, Nathaniel Thurston, Scott Wisdom, and
others.


MISCELLANEOUS
-------------

For a list of changes between versions, see the file CHANGES.

Geomview is distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser Public
License (LGPL); see the file COPYING for details.
    
The file MANIFEST contains a list of the files in this distribution.


KNOWN BUGS
----------

(S refers to a SGI bug, N refers to a NeXTStep bug, and X refers
to a X bug)

Picking can fail if any part of any object is behind the camera plane. (SNX)

BUG REPORTS AND COMMENTS
------------------------

Please send bug reports and comments about this version to
software@geomview.org.
